[0:00:00] null: 

[0:00:02] spk_1: This is a flotilla Friday for 2021 September 10. Yeah. I don't really like having the recordings. But I mean I like having the recordings I guess. But I don't like recording and feeling like there's somebody kind of having, you know these future watchers hovering over our shoulders. But on the other hand, um uh Wendy Elford is a big fan of of uh Having the source material. Well she does her that's a big part of her job as uh you know, text analysis. And she's like, well I can't have text if I don't have transcripts, I can't and she when she talks about transcript, she actually means human corrected 100% correct transcripts. And I can't have transcripts of I don't have recordings and so, you know,

[0:00:52] spk_4: well here's my wife's an anthropologist and ethnographer instructions. So and then in the Bc days when we used to go at the restaurants for eating occasionally, she would get distracted because her anthropologists think like should be listening to the table. Yeah, because that's what we

[0:01:12] spk_0: do

[0:01:15] spk_1: reminds me of when my wife and I lived in southern California and sometimes we'd end up in in Hollywood or right around Hollywood having, you know dinner out at a piece of place or something like that. And all the tables around you were talking about scripts and script of workshops and you know deals and all that kind of stuff. It was weird.

[0:01:35] spk_4: Yeah. Yeah.

[0:01:38] spk_1: We're being in Silicon Valley and all the tables around you are talking about which round they're trying to raise and you know whether the good news is

[0:01:48] spk_4: except for the small little python glen where they're still talking about scripts, but there, yeah, yeah, sorry, I'm just moving on. I had a very good week because I actually got some code to running. I kind of learned a lot and I actually like the way the code looks. So

[0:02:12] spk_1: yeah, bills coming off a little bit of a high actually being successful in running cook. Yeah, Which is the big deal. Um, I wonder uh, when you're Michael, if you folks want to talk a little bit about the clambake project and now it's gone, please,

[0:02:35] spk_2: I can take a stab at it. Um yes, so since Michael Vincent and I were able to get together last week, we

[0:02:43] spk_4: were

[0:02:45] spk_2: basically brainstorm besides aligning our visions and direction and things like that, we were brainstorming. So how can we bring our visions together? And so that's clam big. How do we bring it? How do we bring our visions together? So trove Right now, this is going to be my summary is kind of a warehouse of organizations, projects people right. And in an attempt to help connect all of those things and reduce friction for people to find what they need and projects to find the people factor is a um storehouse, you might say, of links and topics, websites, everything you can find on the web organized, how you want it to be organized. So it's easy to find it again later with the ability to talk about it, discuss it and all that kind of good stuff. Um and then my contribution is a vision of how we can visualize things better so that we can navigate to those pieces of information we're looking for faster, easier and again reducing friction. So I tend to be all about reducing friction to getting to what we need. My view is also a little more on the personal side, like the individual seeing a need to improve our individual use of technology so that we can enable individual um evolution, I guess evolution towards better thinking, more creativity, more innovation so that we can then contribute collaborate like that. The individual comes first in my mind and then it's then you come to the point of collaboration with others and then hopefully we come to the point of collaboration to the point of providing something for society. So I'm just coming at it from the individual side, so creating a UX UI experience that enables individuals to get to what they need, solutions they need, and then similarly scaling up to the same thing for organizations, same things for groups, same things. Okay, so how do we bring all this stuff together? That's that's clam cake, Sorry, and that's so we're fumbling our way so far, it's just a conversation but any input is totally welcome, I hope I did that justice,

[0:05:09] spk_1: You did great um house, I wonder about some relationships, how is that related to maps and mapping and collective intelligence and collective knowledge.

[0:05:20] spk_2: So for me those are two different questions from me, maps and mapping is the part of my thinking that says how can we use technology to visualize? Are thinking not necessarily data, how can we use technology to help us say I'm thinking this and that leads to 10 more things and that's interesting. That's interesting. Instead of sending me down a rabbit hole pre designed by someone else. Yes, visual thinking thank you Bill. Um instead of sending me down a rabbit hole designed by somebody else to keep me engaged and sell me something. What's the direction that I want to go in? So it's you know it's the brain it's um as we think it's I think some of the stuff is really wisdomtree I've been playing around with um I think a lot of um napkin is trying to do that, I think there's a factor is basically trying to do that in its own way. Um but following, enabling better thinking for the individual again as being my focus. So for me I have a wisdomtree came the closest so far to the to the visual version of what I want. Not necessarily take technical capabilities but visual version of what I'm thinking of. Um and yeah just just my background in research and creativity and um and connection in human connection has been a big piece of what's informed how this, how the technical visual piece could work. Um Knowledge networks. To me it's just a natural extension right? Of I need to know I'm researching this now and I want to both store the knowledge that I know and I want to expand on it where I can and then I want to collaborate with other people on the parts I don't know yet. And then eventually hopefully create something that benefits everybody. And so to me that's the scaling scaffolding Knowledge Network piece with a personal version and a public version and maybe some hybrid versions for groups that want to work privately together. Yeah. And I hope that justice and it made sense.

[0:07:27] spk_4: So Wendy, I put a link in there. Is that the app you're looking at? Yes,

[0:07:34] spk_2: sir. Mom,

[0:07:36] spk_1: I think there's a bit of discussion about it in in the Clambake channel to

[0:07:42] spk_4: go. I gotta go, I guess I gotta

[0:07:44] spk_2: Yeah. Okay. All right, that's the one, yep. And it's limited. I mean, I met the I met the one of the founders and yeah, there's just two guys. They just did it for fun. They're in the middle of working on other stuff. So, you know, I'm not sure how much development, it's going to get any time soon. I was just super excited to see the visual version of it. Yeah, yeah. If I could, if I could confine his visual the visual, he's created in Wisdomtree and put it on like the brain I would I would be happy. I

[0:08:25] spk_1: was wondering about that visual because um I wonder if you've played around with Obsidian and um they're graphic equalizer and there's actually two, there's a there's the regular one and then there's a fancier one.

[0:08:39] spk_2: I have not yet and you're the third person to reckon to recommend that to me this week. So obviously

[0:08:47] spk_1: that's my name if you want to get together sometime and play with the city and I'd be happy to do that.

[0:08:54] spk_2: Yeah that'd be great. Um I also Notice that the brain has a new version version 12, I don't know how old that is or how familiar other people are with it but I was just posting in the Clambake channel the that the enhancements they recently made to the brain and version 12 really improved the U. I. A lot and I'm loving all the stuff that I'm seeing because it just again brings it closer even closer to what I'm visualizing in my mind and the features that I've I've outlined for the development that I was planning on doing but now now I'm kind of collaborating instead. Um So I'm curious to know if if anybody else has been using the brain or you know what other I know jerry and ask them a bunch of questions but

[0:09:44] spk_1: we should we should have you over to visit the free jerry's brain call where jerry, it's people who are interested in um data, uh graph knowledge bases I guess. But we talked a fair bit about the brain and um, there's jerry often comes and then Mark Trexler who also has a very large brain that he has semi commercialized. Mm hmm. They, you know, they know they know a lot about the brand, their power users superpowers

[0:10:20] spk_2: And did the climate version one, yeah, yeah. It was like a tattoo.

[0:10:25] spk_1: I remember they were talking about version 12 coming out a couple months ago, and they were you know, there's some nice things that

[0:10:31] spk_2: so it is new.

[0:10:32] spk_1: Ok. Um and you you can get stuff well actually, um, you can back up your brain um to a reasonable data file, but then the data file they don't really support or they haven't documented the, you know, export formats or anything where there's an api but it's kind of private. It's not supposed to be public. Um uh we have code though that does parse both the A. P. I and the and the exports. The backups so it's possible to get data out of it. Um but it's not friendly.

[0:11:12] spk_2: Yeah, I know. Vincent. That was my primary question. You anticipated it because I know Vincent did that once he did a portion of it. Yeah. Okay. Um is the brain generally collaborative. This just one more question.

[0:11:28] spk_1: It's not multi player. I think

[0:11:32] spk_2: that's a song where

[0:11:33] spk_1: that's the most sad making thing that jerry has right now That, you know, he's very, um, the brain is a really good tool for him, but he really wants to play with other people. And so

[0:11:45] spk_2: yeah, that would be, that's the biggest barrier for me

[0:11:51] spk_1: that in the data for medicine. Very open.

[0:11:54] spk_2: Yeah. Bill. Yeah.

[0:12:04] spk_4: I have questions. But you know, who wants to hear um, when you talked about how you reacted, when I talked visual thinking about, I was typing too fast what you were really talking about? Visualizing, thinking. And I'd like to hear more sometime or look at more or have maybe a time to actually talk about what you're getting out there. Because partially when I used to teach, I used to, well it was graduate students, but I used to, I used to assert that they all knew the best ways that they learn things or had some idea what they were. And so this thing about visualizing, thinking I, I will, I would like to know what works talking about because it's an actual activity. Then I think, you know, having some way of wandering through the warehouse in the storehouse and making sense out of the two of them you call trove of warehouse and factory store house. And I'm like, okay, but when we're thinking, what are we doing that, you know, it could be about, I'm told it's not a task, but sometimes I'm just looking at the clouds and you know, ruminating.

[0:13:30] spk_1: Do you want to pick that up lending?

[0:13:33] spk_2: Yeah, sure. It's a great question. I think it's interesting for me to have technical conversations around it. So let me just kind of back up for a second and say I understand the nature of most of the questions I've I've been I've been asked from people who work with data are coming from a perspective where visualizing using technology to visualize something usually means visualizing existing data for me. Because I came at this project from a direction of positive psychology and that's fear. I came at it from wanting to start from the place of the visual and have the database be in the background because I know the database needs to be there right rather than it being a visual being a way to better understand data that's already there. I'm trying to use a visual interface to help me create what I'm to help me see what I'm thinking. Right? So yeah, so if I'm really the storing of the knowledge is really just baseline, right? Because I haven't had this tool already. If I had this tool already, I would have been putting things into this user interface the whole time and the storage would be there as a default. But because we I haven't had it up to this point, then I need something from which I can maybe upload some some other documents or Excel, file CSP files, other things because I've been forced to store information that way so far. But really I want to see it in this visual interconnected way because I have so many, so much going on and have gone down so many different avenues of thought and started to realize how I researched into this area of positive psychology. And then I researched over here into climate change and then I researched over here into helping my community through Covid and some of those pieces connected to each other, but it was impossible to connect them. It would have been lovely if in the moment I could have gone soup, like I just connected those two things for me, I'm a visual person. That's not everybody I get that. But because yeah, you just wrote positive psychology and yeah, that's my that's my uh that's that's basically taking the best of how we think and what we do and and and and doing it more often making it more common in doing it more often. So I'm trying to use technology to enable that, right? So in my case, it's creating these connections than that are really the essence of creative thinking and we are often at our best when we can be creative and that's where solutions start to come from. So I think there's a bunch of low hanging fruit, low hanging fruit being storing the knowledge, low hanging fruit being, enabling people to get to solutions that have existed for a really long time, but maybe they're not aware of it or they don't know about it. And then it's then it's enabling people to be more creative, more innovative. Again, it's a visual version of that. I'm not saying that's the only way to do this, but I'm saying it's a big piece that's missing right now that technology could fill and for for those of us who would find a benefit in a tool like this? I think we would usually benefit when I talked to Vincent about it, we've come to a and Michael last week to it was there need to be different views. Right? Sometimes you need to see things in list form, sometimes you want to see a map view, sometimes you want to look at the database itself. And I think those that would be a valuable interfaces to have almost like toggles at the top where you can switch between views or different views being presented at the same time. And again, you know, the brain just kind of went there in the sense that you have the you have the brain view on one side and you have the page view on the other. So I think again, some stuff like that's coming but circling back around my approach to it is from the visual view and not so much from the data view.

[0:17:51] spk_1: Um, if if I may, I kind of wanted to pick up and and to do kind of a parallel, um, rent or chat or whatever. Um, I've been for the for a week or two? Maybe a little bit longer? I've been talking about organizing information especially as relates to wikis. Um and um and I have I've been making a couple of assertions and part of it, I I have a fairly strong position, which is why I strengthen a little bit just to to be able to articulate it. I don't think it's the only way to think are the only way that I don't know if it's true, but I like to take a strong position and you know, and talk about that. So my strong position is that um uh 111 thing is that the folks here, people like us are all specialists and were able to use uh specialized tools, uh like databases or like lists or like visualizations. Um uh and most people uh aren't specialists, they're kind of human generalists and they get through life without using a lot of the power tools that we kind of take for granted like like wikis or like databases were like lists of things or streams of things. Um I think that specialization even goes out to reading and writing to me, reading and writing is a specialization. Um We all take it so much for granted that it seems like, well of course everyone reads and writes. But if you think about it in your life, the people that you talk to, How many of them have written, you know, 10 pages, how I haven't written 10 pages recently, right? How many have written? How many have read 100 pages? You know, in the past, you know, week or month or whatever, right? Um, meeting and writing is kind of a specialization and we we forget that. I think so, in the same way, I think that information organization, um, uh, you have a piece of paper that goes in a file folder that goes in a set of another file folders that goes in the drawer that goes in a particular cabinet or um, probably all of us are old enough to have used physical libraries. Um, I'm going to go look in the either the old physical card catalogs where I'm going to look in the computer card catalog. I'm going to find a book about um elephants. Um and then it's going to give me a coded address for a physical location of a a floor and an aisle and a shelf, and a section of that shelf where I can go and grab elephants and I can grab other books close to elephants. Um, All of that. So I think probably each of us grew up in an environment where that was kind of just obvious. That was kind of just something that everybody did. So when I see people pick up a wiki, um I see them kind of recapitulating that thinking right. Um of course, of course everybody reads and writes. Um of course everybody organizes things by categories or by hierarchy. Um and that's and I come upon, you know, it's it's fairly common people are going, okay, well I'm organizing information and here's my hierarchy, right? We don't start the conversation about what what information is, what knowledge is, how we communicate. We just go straight to this hierarchy. Right? Here's my hierarchy. I'm comparing it to somebody else's hierarchy. Mine is better than theirs or there's a better than mine. And or I, I want to figure out how to map hierarchies. And I'm like, so the pitch in massive wikileaks and is like yeah, hierarchies and even categories and stuff like that aren't as interesting as connections links between uh information um uh and context. Um so when I, when I talk to people about, you know, uh the question is how am I going to organize my information and my wicked. And I'm like, well don't worry too much about organizing it, worrying, worry about capturing it and improving the way it has been captured moving up from kind of a stream of consciousness set of notes or thoughts, you know, improve that slowly over time. And it could be like over weeks or months or years in a wiki, you know, where you start to cluster the information and you start to connect it to other things. Um And then look for ways that you connect information. This stream of consciousness. Oh this reminds me of other streams of consciousness had in the past. And my wiki let me make it draw a link between them, right? Um, uh, The, the, and then away that Wikis work, especially when you get a number of people doing a wicked together, which is something that we don't see anymore, but we do it all the time 15 years ago. Um, uh, there's an interesting thing that happens that people start thinking alike. They think in a group brain way. So I, I used to see this all the time. Um, somebody would start to organize something a certain way and then somebody else would pick up that organization and improve it a little bit or make it worse. Maybe a little bit, they'd have some conversations around the edges in a chat system or in real life. And they'd say, oh, I saw that you started putting headers this way or I saw that we started making links or I saw that we started having this convention of naming pages a certain way. Here's my idea about that or I like that. And here's the thing that I'm going to do. Another thing that's similar to that are different than that. As we started working together wikis. We have this collective way of managing information and organizing information and linking information and knowing kind of having body language around. Um, you know, you could, you could end up looking at somebody's page and, and kind of know what they were thinking about that page. Oh they kind of left it in a draft state and I know that I can improve it or you know, this is a this is a page where they obviously have a strong opinion about it. This is a rant and I'm not going to touch their rant except maybe to fixing typos. What I'll do is I'll make a link to it. Um and I'll have a separate rant on a separate page. That kind of body language of, you know, what this information space means and what we're doing with it and things like that is something that kind of improves and evolves over time. And one of the things I I notice about humans is that when we're doing culture together, um it brings people closer together. It builds trust. It builds relationships that we can rely on and then build upon those relationships to do a better job of keeping information, things like that. Um, one of the, some, some people will look at kind of the chatter, the chit chat or the slow process of organizing information kind of organically rather than, you know, having a library sciences person come in and say, okay, you've screwed up your information here is the way to do it. That's not really what I want out of my wikis. The wikis are participate in right? Except you know, sometimes you need that there there are cases when you need that. But in the main what you want is to have this culture forming that understands how the information is put together, wants it to be better and works on that together and builds human relationships about how we're doing that. And people are just slow that way. And it's a good thing. It's a really good thing when we go slow and we honor each other's trust and we honor relationships to one another. And when we, we make jokes about things or we tell people that we're upset about things. I can't believe you stomped on my page. Why did you do that? You know? And it's okay sometimes to be mad at somebody and you work things out right? Um, all of this stuff, I'm kind of describing humans as they have been for thousands of years, right? Tens of thousands of years. If you think about humans and the way they communicate and the way did they do knowledge. It's not written down. It's not in file folders. It's not in a library. The way you human, the way you culture is by having emotional connections with one another. Having trust bonds. Social trust bonds with one another. And the way that you communicate information is in what I call stories. And when I say story, I mean probably something pretty small. Um, even as small as a single sentences to me. A story, right? Subject verb object. Um uh, last time grandma got too close to the bear cave, she got eaten you know or um or uh Auntie was out collecting berries and then she found this new kind of berry which is awesome. Um or she found this new kind of berry she ate some and she got sick. Um Those are the kinds of things that I think. So my another strong assertion I have is that people knowledge if I can use knowledge of the verb with stories. And so all of the technical specialization tools that we have um are are largely not entirely but largely ways of of story and maybe serializing a story into a form that you can pull out later. So text when you write down a piece of text, hopefully what you're doing is essentially your brain is telling a story of how something happened to you. And then you you actually tell a story about the story that happened to you. You can't really relate the thing that happened to you but you relate a story about it what it meant to you. And we have this trick where we we serialize language spoken language into text and then later I can or somebody else can de serialize that back into speech and language and stories. And it's not the text that is the communicator. It's actually the story that I tried to serialize into text and the story that somebody de serialize out of the text. So the story there is the interesting part. Um So then something like a map of visualization is kind of the same thing where you take um Yeah. Uh you take a bunch of stories and you can put them in a visual space and you can and and but then the way that you use the map is me later looking at my map or somebody else, or me showing somebody else my map, it's like A is connected to be this way B is connected to C. And D. These ways. And you you tell a story around the map, and that's the value of the map is it's a way to remind yourself of the stories that you can tell in that space. The um And when you make a map and give it to somebody else, if you did a good job, what happens is that they can brainstorm over the map that you've created and tell stories. They can't look at a map and get all the visual relations, they don't get the relationships of all of that stuff in a flash. What happens is they look at a map and they go, ok if I need to get from the Empire State Building uh to uh to the met, what I have to do is find this station and use this line and then go to this station and make a transfer and then go to another station and get out right, you tell yourself a story of how to navigate the map. and that story again is the important part, the map is just a way of giving you hints about what the stories are, right and where the stories are, it helps you remember how many stories that you can get. It helps you synthesize new stories. You know, if somebody made a map of all the subway stations in new york, maybe that's not super useful to them or to you, but when you can turn it into something like I need to get from the Empire State Building to the mat, then you've synthesized the story out of it that they didn't write down, they wrote down all the possible stories with the subway stations. But the story again, is the the interesting and important part. So then one of the things that I observe with these visualizations, graph visualizations of knowledge base is always look like junk to me. Um if they're automatically done and it's I think what happens is that when you just have the machine say, okay, here's all the connections. Um you didn't capture the ability to do, you didn't capture a story, There wasn't a human that said, you know, this is a is connected to B. And B. Is connected to C. And it's important because you just had a database query that said, okay, split all the possible connections on the screen, right? Um and then maybe if you're lucky, some gravity forces kind of organized it into a way that is least objectionable. But the The process of just making a visualization doesn't make meaning. It doesn't make stories and things like that, it's when somebody comes along and curates that and says, Okay, so now I've got a picture of 200 nodes. Let me filter out the ones that aren't meaningful. Let me highlight the connections that are meaningful. And here MS reader is a story that I can tell out of this mismatch of big data. I've I've curated it into stories. So my whole thing is is stories are the way people think the way that people knowledge, we use specialized tools to help us story but we don't want to get distracted by the fact that the tools that the tools aren't the story, right? Um the stories are still the story and the tools just help us serialized stories and de serialized stories, so that's my pitch. Okay, Mark, I think maybe you're up next except your music

[0:32:26] spk_3: are commuted.

[0:32:28] spk_5: Sorry? Um Yes, I am up next by hand uh signal, but I'd love to hear responses to what Peter just said.

[0:32:39] spk_3: I I asked a question, I'm in the chat um about stories Um 20 I was in a conversation yesterday with uh some uh um c t a uh collaborative technology alliance um folks about um ontology ease and schemas and um and was thinking out of what they were saying about um trying to strip down to um yeah, people, you know agents, those that can be profiled those that have agency um for lack of a better word data, information nodes, um a second category that is just stuff without agency but information that gathers um metadata and stories I would say as well, story elements as the accumulates, I mean things that stories can be told about um and then containers, which is a much looser thing, which I wonder if it might include stories um that when you um take all these random books in the library um some of which were they not constrained by physical space, might fit in multiple sections or might fit together in different ways according to different people but you allow all these overlapping containers and stories to be created around them which um yeah, you know which of course their hair brain stories told about the same set of facts but there's there's an inherent vetting and building of reputation in seeing the gravity of the connection between certain facts. Um data points, pieces of information that different agents have drawn in a story or by just tagging them the same way or by just connections that they have drawn? Um Mhm. And I don't know if those three elements uh I see Bill, just asking the question what is the fact before is the fact, you know, a data point an assertion which may be wrong, which you know and yes, incorrect data points can build some gravity um around a story that certain people are telling each other, but if you also have as as metadata around that item. Other people saying this is wrong um and other people with, with expertise in that area saying this is wrong, that can be telling for people, if you if you go to that piece of data in a random access way, there's a little bit of a story that an individual piece of data tells that that has the information that different agents has. The mhm The containers um iii stories, tags um groupings that that different agents have put on it to say, wow this, this alleged fact is um is associated with some things that other people say they are wrong and the people who are expert in this field seemed to say that this is wrong. There's at least controversy here. Um mhm You know, the visualization of this can be done in many ways. Sorry, I'll stop. But I mean I just wanted to throw out the idea of um that that random access quality being sort of a leveler because anybody can just come upon whether digitally or in the world um an item of information and if part of our job and part of our job in creating interoperability is too associate as much metadata and as many stories and containers that have been put there by other people um to let somebody find something and let them use the all the spokes, all the edges that come out of it to find people find related information, dispute it. Um No find the stories that are built around it. Um I think that's it's a little bit our job. Mhm.

[0:38:16] spk_5: Mhm. Um Thanks Michael and uh thanks Peter. These are both great um notions I am fairly known um or at least uh unfairly known, fairly unknown for basically um trying to take the position that it's not all stories, its context, it's different types of elements, statements, um oppositional propositions, big propositions questions. Um and I find the story focus to be um in the study of how we basically grow an understanding to be a limited kind of view. Um I just um I'll try I'll just put that out there and and come back to it later, but I certainly appreciate um the slow culture vision of or um story or example that Peter told. Um I posted a James Maxwell quotations um and I'll just post the quotation um uh in there basically. Um and I'll read it out, It's part of a 19 78. Um I'm looking for the encyclopedia Britannica where apparently this um quote on entropy is but let me read it out a memorandum book does not provided it is neatly written, appear confused to an illiterate person or to the owner who understands it thoroughly, but to any other person able to read it. It appears to be inextricably confused. So we've all had the experience of being in class and sharing notes with other people and basically some people's notes are clear and understandable to us. Other people's notes are Impenetrable. Um And what I love about this quote is it's in the middle of available a discussion of entropy, available energy and dissipated energy is heat. And this uh notion of organization is linked to the states of motion of atoms. But anyway the this little chunk really puts out

[0:41:18] spk_6: a

[0:41:22] spk_5: a case to tie back to what Peter was talking about about some kind of collaborative culture where we learn each other's signs and organizational systems and adapt mutually to each other so that we can have an artifact that is mutually meaningful. Now whether that can be done on a website like factor or even Wikipedia. Uh people are actually doing that. People are actually developing different ways of communicating. Um When I was involved with 03 d. um vernal Vrml um it was an idea to create three D. Spaces on the web and like html. You could cut and paste to make your own stuff. But I went to architecture school and learn how to think in three dimensions. People can do the writing of html and the reading of html in a browser very easily to actually create visual or at least I'll use the three D. Example to create spatial three D. Spaces that make sense. Um It was an authoring problem. You could not author a three D. Space as easily as you could the two D. Web page and it kind of fizzled out and and died. So certainly what I'm trying to point out are to the two aspects of creating the shared knowledge bases, the writing part and the reading

[0:43:19] spk_6: part.

[0:43:20] spk_5: Um They're not always as clear as we might ourselves imagine when it comes to involving other people and um certainly um I loved what uh Michael and and peter we're talking about. Um and unfortunately I've got to go in about four minutes but uh thanks for listening. Thanks mike.

[0:44:00] spk_1: Yes. Um along with the Mexico code. Thank you mark. Um I wanted to share a Kafka letter, franz kafka letter. Um It came up in the context of a smaller part of the quote of it, but it's a fun, yeah, it's a fun letter. It's in german so you have to you have to translate it. But um uh the small quote was um words or really a book. A book must be the ice axe for the frozen sea within us. Ah The whole letter is lovely and I won't, I mean grab it and grab it and translate it. That's not the that's the pull quote but that's not the best part of it. Yeah, instant.

[0:44:57] spk_3: Hello

[0:44:58] spk_6: everyone.

[0:44:59] spk_1: I have like a

[0:45:01] spk_6: half baked thought um whenever I find information or stories that are really interesting.

[0:45:14] spk_1: Um My

[0:45:16] spk_6: one of my first kind of urges is to like save it in a place where I know I can find it later and I don't know if that like almost like a bad learned habit because life is too demanding and we don't have the time when we come across something we like to actually like sit with it. It's like, you know, you come across like a patrick berry's, but there's like a, you know, a wild tiger chasing you and so you can look at it, take a mental note of where it is and then you have to keep running away. And so I don't know if that's um and like a realistic uh analogy um because maybe will never be in a time where we can actually go through things. But yeah, I very rarely um there's this one tool I use called refined when I open a new tab and it shows me like really interesting articles and occasionally I'll like open up one of those articles and and read it, but most of the times I'll save it for later and then when I do have the time I will open it up and read it. Um But yeah, like for me, there's like almost two separate processes, there's the process of like being emergent engaged in stories which is like the actual juicy stuff like that's like the berries. It's what you live for, but then there's like a whole other process which is like, all right, we're like hunting for the stories for the berries. It's like, and that's that time is kind of unknown. You know when you're going to come across something and so I feel like having an information system which actually can help me take that unknown and make it a little bit more known. Like when I search for something on Google, I'm not sure if it's going to be on the first result of the page or it's going to be on the like 107th page or I'm not going to find it at all. Um So having a way to like search and find information that's like reliable, that when you do want to like sit down and engage with the story, you know, you could find it. Um like last night I spent a half an hour looking on like, you know, four different websites for a movie to watch that was on netflix and that um wasn't over two hours because we don't have that much time. Uh and that was not super action

[0:47:39] spk_1: packed because I

[0:47:40] spk_6: actually got into a surfing incident. I was like super adrenaline adrenaline filled and I wanted something relaxing uh ended up just watching Planet Earth because that was the only thing that I knew was I knew it was there uh that met the criteria, but I couldn't actually find what I was looking for and um yeah, so that's kind of information management tools and wikis aren't just about the stories. I think they're also about finding the stories and that process could be different.

[0:48:20] spk_3: Um, I'll jump in and nobody else's. Uh, I would love to come back to that first thing you said Vincent about, about running from the tiger and and you know, not having time to deal with the berries. Um, I think the stories that we tell and the things, the information than that each of these agents gathers in the random way that they do. Like, I'm running from a tiger. There's some berries. Mental note. I'm throwing that in the, the food full older that that association of food and place, were it like where it's something that you could look at, where somebody else who was running from a different tiger, you know, in a different direction. You would never go back maybe to that, that berry tree because there are tigers around there. But uh um if that information were recorded, if that metadata were recorded and layered on the metadata of other people doing different things, some of whom weren't running from tigers and had time to stop and taste the berries and say these berries are really good. And that were mapped in a way that said there seemed to be a lot of these berry trees that a couple of people have said, we're really good in this area. The north part of it has lots of tigers in it. But the south part of it, you know, this is the way that knowledge emerges and stories emerge from just one random bit of metadata. That could be the metadata that is you putting it in a folder for later. You know what I'm saying? And and that kind of layered interactive non storytelling, just container placing. Um seems seems to me something, there's something there. So please please keep uh maybe it's not yielding much yet, but please keep putting those things you see into a container or tagging them or you know, and I think we all should and then we have to figure out how we can all see it. Mhm. By mark.

[0:50:58] spk_2: Okay, I'll jump in. So I'm gonna go back to something I posted and then bring it back ground to stories and everything everybody is talking about because I find this super interesting. So I think what I'm hearing and what everyone is saying is we're talking about capturing and storing knowledge in different phases. I guess I would call the phases where and so what I posted before was sometimes we want to just get to a resource right? Either it's a piece of information we need right now. We don't really care about it other times. Or just curious or a friend post pointed us to something but it's not really our thing or we just told we need to learn something for some reason or whatever. Right? We just need we just need information that already exists. We need to get it from a book or website or something to me that's a very different process then I'm exploring something that I really love. It's a new hobby or I'm more interested in, the more I explore it and I want to go deeper and I want to go broader and I want to, you know, I want to remember what I thought of three months ago when I was researching this, but then got sidetracked from researching this, that kind of knowledge storing and learning. And then we sometimes want to explore something that really no one knows yet, or there's very little information about and then, and that's a completely different thing. I completely agree with the threat of stories. I don't know that we always think about it, but I do think all the research and psychology even points to the fact that we're always creating a story in our mind. We have a story about how we feel about things. We have a story about who we are, we have a story about what our origin is. We have a story about how we see the world that provides the filters and the perspectives that we have on the world and whether we're consciously conscious of it, sorry, whether we're conscious of it or not, we are forming those stories all the time and I don't know yet whether technology would benefit us and pointing out that process or simply just presenting us the pathways with which to to get to where we need to go. But I think both are valuable and I I guess what I'm trying to say is all of these things are important. All of them have value. Whether we're just passing something by and we need to put it, you know, there we saw the berries and we were racing by and so we think we need to store it um for later when we're hungry and we're not being chased by a tiger. But what if somebody else had already stored that knowledge for us and we could trust that our society had that knowledge stored for us. So we didn't even have to waste the energy to storing that. We could go find it when we needed it and we could trust that we could find it when we needed it when when it was important and it might even then be surrounded with the best time to go is in the spring when the tigers have moved away and there's no one around, right? And you can take your time gathering in fact, and then here's how to process the barriers so that the last of the winter so that when the tigers are there, you don't have to like that. Yes, that to me is the ideal, right? It's let's guess past the point where we reach curating for ourselves, there will always be that piece. But we're also curating for each other simply because I already curated it for myself, why not give it to you as well? Right. It's common knowledge now. So to me that's the juicy spots, right. Whether we want to frame it in stories or not. Stories. To me, it's more valuable to frame it in what kind of phase I'm in? Am I in a phase of I just need some information and I am I in a phase where I'm really deep diving into something and I want to use use the interface or the community or the interaction or whatever to really learn something deeply. Am I in a phase of creating something brand new if I were to try to break it down into three. But I think there's it's a continuum really? Yeah.

[0:55:16] spk_1: Any thoughts

[0:55:22] spk_3: off of um what was being said in the chat here? Um what Vincent was saying of who do you curate for? Who are you waiting for? You? Others both? Um that mm hmm. It's really interesting. One of the, one of the uh the use cases, the user stories um that we imagined for factor in early days where our orientation was more um um related. NGO gathering um gathering information. So that people on the ground in one place, we're seeing the same things that you know, somebody in new york was seeing um and realizing that some of the data that needed to be gathered would be gathered by people who didn't know what its significance was and that had to be surfaced. Like somebody in Sierra Leone takes a picture of somebody's arm and says you know what the hell is this this disease that's forming on you know not not being a part of a U. N. Team. Not being anything. Just just wanting to like say hey berries on this bush, you know, I don't know what it means where it fits. I'm not sure this is for me or for you or for the greater world but just you know, data point. Um and so you know that we don't really know why were gathering, you know not all of us are information gatherers but we're kind of all information gatherers and the easier it is for everybody to share their information. If it's not something they need to keep private um without knowing what its significance is. Without knowing where it fits. I mean the metadata on the very photograph for the skin photograph could just be a date and a location and that's all there is. But somebody who is researching because they're doing a deep dive and looking for examples of berries in this region, you know, I can find that. Um Yeah so um yeah. Um just to what Wendy, what you were saying about um I don't have to gather this information because um because somebody else has already gathered it. I find the information that other people have already gathered because I gather this piece of information that I don't know. I don't know where it fits. But I find out where it fit from from the other people. Um, you know, picture of at a more mature state. A picture of a berry in this place brings up all this information about, you know, recipes for how to cook that barry, how to dry it for the winter. As you were saying, you know, watch out for the tigers, all kinds of stuff. So yeah, I think we're we're getting some good stuff here.

[0:58:58] spk_4: So sorry, go. Okay. So I'm having a bit of a hard time with this conversation because I don't really don't have to think about it literally. So I maybe I'll make some notes and send them out. But I um a little confused about this word story which has now become so big that it has, it's losing its meaning for me or the meeting I used to have. So I'm a little confused there. Although I actually believe everything you're saying. Okay, all right, just I'm getting kind of unhinged here. So in a way that isn't helpful and so I don't really, I don't know I have. This is so it's quite generative, you know, this is a really rich conversation, but I think for me at least it's going to take a lot of work to come up with to make sense of just what we've talked about and the idea of looking things up because I've seen this very what is it in the neighborhood, I live in texas, people just take pictures of snakes in their garden and posted on facebook. You know, many of my wife or the snake Wrangler comes back. Oh that's just a that's just a rat snake. You love those things, They eat things you don't want around in new york. Mhm. You know, so people don't expect to find it online, they expect some neighbor to go, oh that thing, you know, don't worry, it's not interested in you, like the rattlesnake, which is like you want to come, you want you want a piece of me come and take it right, most snakes are like, there's a big two legged I think home I think of hideout. So I'm just saying that I think this is super rich and I don't know how to make sense of it. I'm not sure, I agree with all the assertions.

[1:01:12] spk_1: So the way to make sense of it is to keep talking and obviously not necessarily, we can do a day synchronously. But then the other the other trick of that is to remember what we're talking about um which is going to end up maybe in text. Okay.

[1:01:26] spk_4: Yeah, and I wow. Yeah. Well, I don't know, maybe later this week, I'll find out when I know that I'm actually thinking rather than doing something else that would help if I could say, oh now I'm thinking Mhm. As opposed to what bill? Uh daydreaming? Um It's super interesting, so thanks, thanks, thanks for it.

[1:02:03] spk_2: Yeah, so as you were talking about, I think I might have an example that might help because it's in the realm of education. So I always pictured of visual interface, let's say you're a teacher, the traditional model and you can please feel free to correct me. Would be I as the teacher know the body of knowledge that I need to cover in a semester, I'm going to start here and I'm going to go through this path to get here. We're going to take some branches if I think they're important tangents to help people understand of course I'll take questions and stuff. But it basically had my curriculum mapped out. I've got my exercises, I've got my group work, I've got my labs have got whatever, even maybe a field trip thrown in there to help integrate the knowledge right? They if I could take what I am visualizing and give it to a teacher, this is how I can imagine it working. I'm a teacher, I plan a couple days in advance with a visual representation of the knowledge, I plan to teach and its smallest beginner form, I've just say a node and a couple of connections. On day one we talk intro, we meet each other, all that normal stuff and for homework, the kids assignment are to add one thing to the tree, collaboratively Add one piece of information. The discussion is why did you add that piece of information and how does it relate to the topic that we're talking about in class? That could happen at a regular basis over the course of a semester at the end of every semester, the tree of curated knowledge around the topic from which we've been learning looks different every single time, right? Because of what different students will add and why they added it. The why they added it is the story I added this piece because I was it made me think of block. Right? So history, but it made me one student think of how her family cooks and she ends up adding a recipe and a little story about how this particular recipe fits into history and where it came from, either from her family or or from the food or whatever. Whereas another kid goes off into politics and talks about, you know, wants to integrate what's happening now with what happened then. Right. And and that becomes the story and that story line even if not only helps us learn because that's how we think even when we're not conscious of it, we think in associations, we learn much better when we connect a piece of information as you probably well know right to something else. We already know that if it's a piece of information is just kind of floating around there and doesn't seem to connect to anything. So it's helping literally build those connections in ways that are meaningful to the people in the room? I don't know if that helps or not. But that's the way I think.

[1:05:13] spk_4: Yeah that's genius actually. Um And when I was teaching at the U. K. It was a graduate level course on scientific data informatics. You know I've shared that big list of mind maps but that's exactly how the car this course started with a little scalpel bagram. Uh Now I didn't have I wasn't you know when we're trying to talk about what's this you know the information was the information properties of scientific data. I just would tell the class. I said look there's no textbook we are here on our own. And I would say my goal for you is to have a worthwhile learning experience. Then he hitches I can't do it for you. You're going to have to do it for you. I'm gonna have a great one because I always do because I'm interested in that. But so that's the way I didn't really have the idea of if I were doing it now I think I would have more technology to help people actually build an annotated kind of I know some monster. I would actually build a wiki of the results of you know these whatever 15 weeks of interacting but yes I mean I think that is you know. Yeah. Well so yes I agree. I mean I did that.

[1:06:49] spk_2: Yes. So does that clarify story to you, because that was where you were?

[1:06:56] spk_4: Yeah, that's a nice idea, just but I don't know, in this conversation it got super big, like a pumpkin.

[1:07:02] spk_2: Yeah,

[1:07:04] spk_4: which is something lucy, such minutes eric spark used to talk to the tech people about interoperability, she used to say it's like a big idea, it's like it's like a pumpkin. Yeah, because you know, my wife was there to just to push back on the tech people like what, what are you talking about this?

[1:07:26] spk_2: Yeah, and I think again, it's multilayered, right? I have my individual story about myself, I have the story about this classroom, of the story about the teacher, the story about what I'm learning that either provides it meaning or makes me think it's stupid. And then, and to me it's the it's the scaling up version of that, you know, Wendy Alford's version of that would be, we're a top, we're trying to look top down on a very complicated situation and if we collect stories, we can makes sense out of the threads that exist and see into what other people aren't seeing within them, within their own, within their own frame of experience, right? So it's still it's sense making a larger story, which until computers came along, really, the only way you could do that was sit around a fire and share and share stories, right, and see where the thread was now she's taught, she's able to find the thread. So instead of a threat of knowledge weaving through the semester of a classroom, going slightly in one direction or slightly in the other direction, depending on the students, you now have an entire community, a city, an organization or whatever, who are also going in one direction and if management thinks they're going in this direction, but they're actually going in this direction, that's worthwhile knowing because otherwise we're solving the wrong problems are putting our energy in the wrong ways.

[1:08:46] spk_4: Yeah, well, I just want to add one thing, I'm going to have to jump off in it. Well, maybe another five minutes. But so the one thing that I came up for me, I didn't type them in. The thing is that when we start using story, the way I've been hearing it, that almost things it sounds to me now, we're going to reduce almost every experience they have to like, you're telling a story. So once things get reduced, I'm like, I'm done now because that's an intellectual, like, model and sorry, I'm a human organism, I'm not, sorry, sorry, not, sorry, well, whatever. But so I think, yeah, if it gets, if the word gets to be everything is a story, then after a while we're not, you know what I mean? We're going to lose what it is we're talking about, which actually needs, depending on the tasks, certain distinctions to be made.

[1:09:49] spk_3: Bill, I actually think you just got to something which was, I was about to say that the, if I'm hearing you right, the the negative association um that you have with stories is kind of there. You want them. Well I won't try and characterize what you're saying. I'll just say what I was going to say, which is that the people write stories about barry's and tigers and legends and you know, all kinds of mythology could be built around berries and tigers. We're gonna be talking about berries and tigers for a long time. Um, but the december, dis ambiguous waited information there that led them to tell the story um, is is what you want to get past. Like not that stories are bad, but sometimes you don't want to hear somebody else's story, you want to filter out the stories, but just know that stories were told about this thing, that information was attached to it that you may want to associate in different ways. So like I want the benefit of the fact that this thing that somebody told a story about has these attributes, that it's in this place, that it's that this snake is in this yard in this city and that's somebody else told a different story that happened to have another stake in this yard and before you know it, hey, I realized that these snakes are, you know indigenous to this area and you know, and the fact that, that somebody, you know that this, this question and answered that you have on facebook, which is um, not the result of search, not the result of true storytelling that we want to preserve that decision ambiguous lated information and let that be a part of other people's research and other people's knowledge right now. It's siloed only on facebook perhaps, you know, privately only on somebody's or you know, some friend groups. Um, uh, you know, page that, you know, a dozen people have access to where they're not, they might be private about the banter, but they're not private about the fact that there's a snake in a photograph with this, you know, time and and location metadata. If it was anonymous organized. Um,

[1:12:47] spk_4: yeah, I just want to say one more thing before because you said something super critical. You use the word, um, you have a either true storytelling or something. You called something, you had an adjective on storytelling that was different. I don't have a negative association with the word story. I'm just responding to how it seems to be being used as we have this conversation. Oh yes, yes. But something so if there's something called true storytelling, then we better find out what that is before we start using the word story for all these about many other things. Yeah. But I just think this is a longer, more interesting conversation and I really do have to run and squeeze the dog. Yes. I'd like to say he actually does the squeezing, but you know what, so I'm going to leave you all here and maybe I'll catch up on the video take and I can use the little you can get the chat thing out of the video, can't we? We have tools for that. Okay. Nobody else, everybody have a good

[1:14:01] spk_1: week. We'll see you bill with that. Yes. Mhm.

[1:14:16] spk_2: Yeah, I really like what you had to say, Michael. Um I put a couple of things in the chat as you were talking, trying to capture a little bit of what you're saying and maybe add a little, a little extra to um yeah, and I kind of agree with Bill. It's it's I'm not sure we need to continue to use the word story all the time, but it is an interesting exercise to think about it. And I do think there's a line between when we when we seek out stories either from each other in person or whether it's, you know, through technical means, um in the traditional sense versus what our understanding might be of how we work unconsciously, and when we get into that, I think, um there's a value there to just understanding that that thread runs through everything. But I think when we start talking about what features or what attributes or what characteristics do we want, certain interactions and connections to have. I think story needs to be kind of put back in where and two more of the traditional sense. Um you know, if I'm if I'm creating a workshop, there are times when I'm creating it and I have a very clear direction of where I want everyone to go and I know exactly how to get them there and I'm going to walk them through that and get them where they need to go, there's less story there, but if I'm looking for everyone to explore and we're all trying to figure out what's going on, um then I'm going to be looking for stories, I want to pull stories out. So I think you know, I think um I think we I just go back to using the word to the traditional version is also fine, but it's also helped us today to explore the different ways in which humans interact with each other and potentially could interact with technology and that's been really valuable.

[1:16:23] spk_1: Uh You want to say something,

[1:16:28] spk_0: I was just looking at the definition of story. Ah I think it's funny how there's so many definitions, that's why one of the questions I have about the english language is it's just a little bit finicky. Um and uh you know I just think of story is like metadata um I guess I been so much in the back end of this stuff and thinking about it from a very technical perspective. So I just think of like information about information and just think of like overlap like Kalanick overlap for shared meeting context. But this is very interesting to me this is the kind of stuff that I've been exploring at great length for quite some time again, how it relates to the back end for these different technologies using distributed web architecture and various frameworks for helping these different tools connect and inter operate. So that's like this is the main thing I'm kind of diving into, I'd say right now, so this is cool that we're having this conversation. I'm grateful to be a part of this. Um you know, one thing that did come to mind for me was so when I was learning about history and I got into different religions and archaeology and things like that, the word myth, we intuitively a lot of us at least me and the people I grew up with myth was like made up, it was false or it was kind of elaborated or fabricated to some kind of context. But when you look at the original epistemology of it, it just means story. And so that's what that's what kind of came to mind all this is just the mythos. And um I think that that is an inherently probably going to have a different meaning to each individual, you know what their individual mythos is along with their perspective and you know, their community. So this idea of perspective is quite interesting to me because having gone down the physics rabbit hole and stuff like that. It's like You know you said they've done different these like supposedly they've done these different stories like they have the brain games and all that and uh you know you're gonna have 20 people see an event and you're getting 20 different accounts of that event and couple days go by and now all of a sudden the details have changed. So I mean that kind of is a little more on the abstract theory side of things of like what is reality. But um you know, I just want to share like those were the things that kind of came to mind when you were speaking. Think sick,

[1:19:06] spk_2: I love I love that you just went to like mythos and that perspective and physics, I mean for me that's I've gone to all those places too and it's fascinating how that kind of all land in the in similar spots, right? That we shape our perspective, our perspective is shaped by our past and our habits and everything that's around us. And so the challenge I think for that I have tried to play with in creating something useful and imagining something useful made out of technology is how do we allow for all those possibilities in one interface, which drives me crazy. And at the same time that's why to me the network view of things work so well because I can make it what I want it to be and it can be that three layered or three d layered, multi layered thanks. So I can make the associations that make sense to me, where it gets dicey is where you know, sometimes this group is I think it's been here. I talked before about okay, there's my version of things because this is my beliefs or these are this is my background or this is my perspective on how I'd like to connect to this information. And then there's a big gray area like I'm like okay I draw a circle around myself and then there's like this big huge swath of gray area. That is what I think is opposed to what you think. What I think is a variation on what you think, What I think is, you know, it comes at it from a different angle or whatever. Right? And that's a huge grey areas. How do we play together in that space? In a way that makes sense. And isn't so complicated that nobody wants to be there ever. And then there's the stuff on the outside of that. Yeah, we pretty much all agree that this is either fact or truth or information that everybody the berries are still there a year later. Like it's still, you know, the berries and they're there and that's it. Right? So the gray area is the interesting part and the hardest part to me. Um and how and that's the collaborative part and allowing for each of us to navigate our way through that gray area in a way that provides meaning to me and my individual life or in the life of my family or my community is I think designing something that's flexible enough that doesn't have, that allows for those different perspectives I guess and doesn't, you know, and here's where we start to get into the realm of like where biases are and where, how do we visualize? How do we help people by visualizing those differences In my mind? I started to do crowd sourcing things. I started to do, you know, going, hey, if there was a piece of information, we could all, even even here's the basin title of something and here all the parts underneath, could we all start to collaborate on? Yeah. Most of us think that this is a great definition and most of us think that this is a great resource and most of us think this is the best book and most of us, right? And yet still allow for the fringe things to be there. It's to me that's where I'm playing right now is trying to Yeah. And I knew that I could, if I couldn't even get like baseline me collective knowledge that we all kind of agree upon. If I can't even get that, then the gray area is like, you know, we're never then we can't even, we can't even start talking about the gray area

[1:22:35] spk_3: zika ahead. Don't wait for me because um I've gotten plenty of air time and you're just getting to speak

[1:22:41] spk_0: up. Okay thanks. I just wanted to address back to that real quick. Well the dream that had come to me it was actually um you can have multiple us but it's a shared back end, it's the shared distributed database. Um and really customizable you eyes. So like what where we're getting at is with these new types of technologies. You can you can you can kind of like move the pieces around as it makes sense to you initially of course until ai gets a little more advanced or at least integrated into this. Uh you know it could be a template. So you can put the thing in the upper right hand corner, upper left, lower left, lower right. And those are options but you can still move it amongst those four pieces. So because the way the different brains are wired, the way culturally there's a lot of reasons that people are going to interact with things differently might even change according to mood. So some of the people I know are playing around with kind of like a bio field sensing technology. Um and those kinds of things. So that's kind of cool to think about how that might influence um these different dynamics. So I I envision really share a database and share back ends And but then it can be multiple different forms of presentation. But at least you've now bridged those silos between. You don't have to have 25 apps, you can have one app. It's almost like downloading an os client I guess right? Yeah it's cool stuff to think about how this might you know come about and and uh and then the other really important thing that I think this is my opinion is this idea of being resistant to civil attacks meaning multiple fake accounts. I think that's a huge problem right now of accountability is the fact that people can go and just say a bunch of stuff or act a certain way and they can do so kind of behind this scene of anonymity. But as soon as you bring more of these things to light people are much more highly incentivized to be careful and scrutinize their behavior and the information that they share. So I think having um ways in which you can have verifiably unique accounts, you know you don't necessarily have to share all the information about the underlying account. You can you don't necessarily know who they are. You don't have to know who they are. You can if you want that in the rules of your network but you at least know that they're verifiably unique like that that accounts actions has meaning. So if you can imagine, you know your reputation or behavior what do you want to call it? An Uber affects the grocery store affects the restaurant. And then now you could filter reviews that you want to read based on those scores and you know, it's more customizable if you want to go and search um for things, you can basically decide what's important to you. What metrics of measurement you no matter in the information that you want to access. I hope that's a good way to describe it.

[1:25:52] spk_3: Yeah. And I want it and you know, thinking about how um I mean we we we talk about this in various groups of us. Just that that yeah. You know wanting the shared um the shared library of of um data and all the different ways of looking at it. Whether it's in a wiki and a map and you know by association with people by association with topics by, you know, um you know, just being able to filter um in in different front ends and within different front ends in different ways. Um Yeah, that's the kind of interoperability I think. You know, we're all striving for. Um so you're gonna build the back end for us. Mhm. You got, you got that, you got that part knocked.

[1:26:56] spk_0: I'm working on it right now as we speak.

[1:26:58] spk_3: Okay, let's talk. Um I just also wanted to say something about the um mythmaking um the myth, I'll go back to container um for um for certain sets of facts that you know individually as when Wendy as you were saying. You know, you come up with your own beliefs that, and, and as groups, we do as religions. We do, you know, that son, you know, rises in east and sets in the west and the myth that's built around that of the, you know, um, you know, pick your, you know, uh, okay, aboriginal, you know, story of the wolf swallowing the sun and uh, you know, um, that we do that and you know, in modern day, we also do that in a way where like, oh, these, these facts don't fit with the mythology. I already, you know, constructed and therefore I'm not going to include them. Um, but if if everybody has access to all the, um, you know, I have the problem of, do you call them facts, even all the, all the, the, the possible data points within somebody's story are, and the metadata attached to them is all accessible to anybody who is looking at their own story, constructing a story, knowing what pieces of the story. Um, in no are questionable. I mean, if you want to lead anybody, you know, we always have this problem of like, can you really, can you really change somebody's mind by attacking their story? Um, you know, they're gonna want to defend their story, but if anybody on their own can see what parts of their story have different stories attached to them that don't, don't negate the fact that this piece of their story exists, but provide other related explanations that might be able to bend their thinking a little bit or at least open themselves up to. Maybe this thing can be seen a different way. You know, maybe there's a scientific explanation for the sun coming up in the east and setting in the west. I mean it's yeah, I don't know where I'm going with this, but I just like, you know the story as container I come back to and the and like let's let um data points that don't have stories around them exist. I guess I guess part of what I'm, what I'm trying to say is like trying to think of a framework in which it's okay to for a fact to be the data points to be part of the story. It's okay for it not to be part of the story. It's okay for it to be part of multiple stories and we all get visibility on all of that. Um if if we want it and we can also filter out like, you know, I'm just interested in recipes for these berries. I don't care about the myths and the tigers and the location where they can. I don't I don't want any of that. Please just show me recipes and you don't see all that stuff.

[1:30:59] spk_2: Mhm Yeah, I think you said it all. I can't remember what I was going to say now. Yeah, I think one of the things I was I was going to stay somewhere in there is, you know, there's the myth of the hero's journey, right? And and with which is joseph Campbell nod your head if you know of joseph Campbell and all this. Okay, so everybody's feeling okay, So when you start looking at how often the humans retail that story and it's million, literally millions of versions of this story, you know? And here joseph Campbell tried to break it down and put it into parts and give us give us a schema from which to follow along if we want to build this story or understand it better and it's really, really useful. And then to Michael's point, Yeah, but sometimes I just need some berries and do we need to go through a whole hero's journey to find the berries? No. Right, so, again, I think there's there's an opportunity if we're if we're in trauma, we need to tell stories. If we're in therapy, we need space held for stories. And how do we come? Oh yeah, this is the other thing. So when you have two people who conflict on their version of truth and it seems diametrically opposed, pretty much everybody agrees that the way to get through that is to find connection. Right? So what if we had a platform that helped us to build connection? Right? So it's the same database. It's the same data. It it's we are now. But the visual then shows these two things are currently opposed? And now here is a little intersection and people start working on well, where is the intersection between those two things? Right here, right here. In between the in between space. Right. And so even if these two sections seemingly get more and more diametrically opposed, it turns out that everyone likes puppies, right? Or whatever. You know, it's it's and I think that that's where um massive wiki is helping. Right? Like any time we're building connections. It's a very human thing that brings us that's how we're wired. Right? It brings us we don't always need a story or we need we don't always need to know that we're building a story. Even if we are we need to build connections to me. That's the key stories do that really, really well because they elicit emotion and emotional. It's it's connection. But I mean the connection to be built in and Myriads of ways and and it breaks down barriers? It breaks down silos between people between information between. It's about So to me it's about the connections in the end. Yeah. And then and then back to what you were saying, Zeke one database helps to build connections faster by its very nature. And my my estimation. Right, because you're not now we're not all slowed down. The whole system doesn't slow down and go, OK, But this connect this system doesn't talk to that system. Okay, well two years of development and a million headaches later. Now we can finally send two pieces of information across to each other. Right? It's not the point is right to to facilitate all of that. Um Yes how do we do that? We need that yesterday I'm sure that every single developer in the entire history of the internet has been saying how do we how do we get these two pieces of information on the same database?

[1:34:32] spk_0: Are you familiar with self hosting? Cloud hosting?

[1:34:38] spk_2: Yeah. Just from a user perspective, not from a tackle technical

[1:34:43] spk_0: right now our information you send a text to your family and friends And that's now seen in 10,000 databases across the world. Um So those are centralized servers giant big warehouse buildings but just stacks and stacks of servers and an I. T. Team and all that stuff taking that and giving a slice to the individual allowing them to plug in device that uses the same amount of electricity as your hard drive would on full capacity or whatever so much less than mining crypto or anything like that. But then you're sharing different instances of these applications across a large range of notes. Now you have a distributed database. I believe that that's one possible solution potentially where you know there's there's always going to be frankly divided. I want to sit in silos but they don't necessarily have to function so much like silos. It's more I think of them as like permission membranes permission servers. Right. Um But still like it's so cool because the way that they can access the data, it doesn't require global consensus, but you can still find, you can still very readily identify where, where there's that overlap kind of how you were talking about. There is the core and then there's the periphery gray area but should in theory I would think allow us to identify where we have the most overlap in our in our data, in our shared data. Right?

[1:36:22] spk_3: I'm really uh um I really like permission ng um decentralization and commissioning, you know, coming up out of that. I'm not sure I followed everything that you were saying but the idea that um well the holy Grail that um we all have all of our own information on our own hard drives and the ability to permission it outwards in myriad ways um saying like I want this specific piece of information to be shared with this one person too. I want this data I've Gary gathered about you know, berries in this location to be shared globally but without specific attribution to me except as somebody who was a first degree witness to the berries existing in that place as a for instance that just um you know that that control of permission ng and permission ng as container

[1:37:57] spk_0: what the internet was supposed to be. She mentioned previously and his original dream what his original vision of the internet was supposed to be so we can sell host our applications. So you know, we're we're hosting, we're hosting our own data. It's not going through, it's no longer going through that centralized database. Um so that allows for um I mean there's tons of challenges, of course obstacles that come with that, especially for security. Um but you know, it should be much quicker. In theory, things could be a lot more lightweight, You wouldn't need as many lines of code, you wouldn't need as many calls and things like that. Um so and also should open up the door for um just the ability to see the different perspectives. So you can kind of like, you know, get a better idea of more of a compilation of what this serve over here is seeing or doing and so on. So you get a variety of the different perspectives as to what's going on. And then ultimately, you know, once, once artificial super intelligence arrives sometimes whenever that is, um now you're talking about literally like a cloud, you know, like the robot Sophia's brain, like it's just the cloud is like in her brain, whatever it is, you know, um that part is scary. Maybe what um just if you look at the idea of an intentional intelligence. Programmable intelligence is the ability of what it can allow us to do with a lot of automated processing and handling of data. So one of the things that the reason I'm sharing is one of things I'm very interested in is this idea of oracle's oracles is like a box, like a black box, you put an input and then it gives you an output. So it's like an basically an automated function. And so I could see these different functions being able to kind of gather data. So it's not like a human necessarily that has to like enter in this data and this database and organize it. But it's it's more of a conglomeration. I'm sure like big tech companies are already using that now. I mean governments for sure have to be using it. But allowing those same technologies that they have that's you know um proprietary and giving that to the people I think could really open up the floodgates for like for what we're talking about. Um I don't know how that's possible but that's just like what that's what I'm hoping can happen at some point.

[1:40:29] spk_2: Yes. Going back to the privacy piece for a second when I started to envision, okay, this is my store of knowledge and I started to talk to people about privacy issues around that. It both frightened people but also open doors to write like if there if we really could trust that the thing I'm creating for my secure ating knowledge for myself can be private because I'm storing it here. It's next to me. I only give permission to people who I give permission to access it. Then a whole host of things becomes possible right now. I'm not just storing knowledge like the berries. Right? I'm stirring knowledge that is that I am extremely aware. I want to keep private. I'm working on something brand new. Someone someone could take it and run with it and I'm not ready to publish it yet. Could be one which is knowledge based. But what about medical based? What about financial base? What about all those other ways in which right now a lot of my dad is sitting somewhere else, which, you know, it has to sit with like a high wall around it and I barely can get access to it. What if I owned that? And it could start making associations between the things that I already know about my own financial or medical situation and that the other space out there right where it is the shared knowledge base and I can dip in and out of those two and go, oh wow, this is a diagnosis that I just received or these are symptoms I have or this is my past history and what's, you know, what can I learn from the, from the, the knowledge network, from the public Knowledge Networks Fear about myself and that's interesting. Save it down. Oh, that's interesting. Save it down. That's interesting. Save it down, you know, and these five things over here kind of interesting to, but let me save them for later and let me curate it in a way that I can find it when I want it, Right? So to me it's opens the door to us as humans, re owning our own story might say our our own knowledge and being able to use technology for that benefit of knowing ourselves better in a world that yeah, in our lifetimes we come across, I don't know what the factor is of the amount of information we now come across and have access to in comparison to just say two generations ago. And we, but our brains can't hold it much more than we, right? So let's use technology to hold it and help us help facilitate that thinking really take advantage of all that's available to us is super cool. And I don't think it's really possible unless we can lock it. Thus, we, as individuals can trust that it's locked in a safe place. I'll always be a little nervous, right? And I always won't want to put up the most important pieces of my life on this thing unless I know it's really safe. And so this is to me this is huge. It's found it's part of the reason why I'm struggling. I struggled for years to develop it because I kind of want to wait for that technology to come up because I don't want to develop it twice.

[1:43:41] spk_3: I'm I'm hearing what you're saying and resonating and and okay, and also thinking about the, you know, we want to feel secure and yet are, yeah, our identities can be um stolen and our our, you know, our finances, our financial records can be hacked and you know, people probably don't want to get our medical records, but certainly you know when they're in somebody else's hands were worried about that and um that security pieces, you know what's under our control, we can govern but there's so much that's not under our control. Um Yeah and and and to circle back to something you were saying, Zeke actually I don't remember who was saying this, but just about the yeah I think it was easy talking about, you know, Oracles and and um you know general intelligence when it comes to be um like being able to just the way that we construct mythologies and stories and and explanations and scientific theories around um facts to be able to loose um a general intelligence in oracle, you know something on a set of facts that we don't even know what we want to make of. Um But just to like say, you know, maybe not be smart enough to have a point of view. Um but more say here is a possible explanation that fits all these facts together or these data points which may or may not be facts. Um And and you know this one makes sense of like 90 of the 100 facts you put in here, but these 10 would disprove it. So maybe it's worth concentrating on whether these 10 are in fact you know accurate um because if they're not then then this all works, but if you know those to be true then this whole thing falls apart. Um and yeah, I mean you know general access to all of those data points um in the same language, you know, including the snake photos in the garden on facebook, want to get there

[1:46:29] spk_0: and the cool thing with the internet of things, we're going to have access to large amounts of data like never before. So that hopefully will help this process because we'll just have access to they're going to have all these little sensors on everything. You're just going to be uploading tons and tons of data constantly all the time about a bunch of stuff that's going to be really cool and then just having it so that we can compile that data and design algorithms in which the machine can, you know start learning about it and trying to piece it together and then it presents us says, hey, you know, got all this like these are the 90 these are the 10 and here's like some stuff and what it could mean and these are other people that are you know doing the same thing and reading and learning about this and so it just can present to you and then you can say like you can even, you know, teach it, it's like machine learning human, human guided machine learning makes a lot of sense. So yeah that was helpful. No that wasn't helpful or let's put that aside for later and then in tag it if something else comes up let me know pop up a notification stuff like that. So it's really cool to think about the fact that like right now we don't have yet all these sensors and all this like day to get access to potential data but once that's available that that that I think can open up a lot of a lot of possibilities to

[1:47:48] spk_3: and that brings me to the fears that we all have and that you know are are realized and true about um the monitoring of the data that we generate By 3rd parties by you know the amazons and googles and the you know the the the ad targeting algorithms that we feel uncomfortable about and we want control over. Um And when you think about you know Iot stuff you think oh my God is you know my vacuum cleaner gonna be eavesdropping on my conversation so amazon can like you know change the pricing on something because they know I really want it. Um And if if we felt confident that we all individually had you know control of that stuff on our own servers and shared it voluntarily. Like I'm fine with sharing you know the chemical analysis of the dust in my house um via my vacuum cleaner with you know academic institutions that are you know, looking at the migratory habits of different animals and can tell from, you know, there's all kinds of stuff that you'd be cool with if you knew. Yeah. All right, fine. I'm I'm up for that. I'm down for that. Here's my data. You can you can have a constant monitoring of the flow of data from my vacuum cleaner. You know, this research program. It would be a lot different than God. Don't let anybody see anything because I don't know what they're doing with it.

[1:49:30] spk_0: That's right. Yeah. And to be really cool to know what people are doing with it. To see how useful it's been encourages you to write to then give more data to the right people to is key. So yeah, that's cool. I agree.

[1:49:47] spk_2: If people are willing, I just want to flip this on its head for a second. So we're talking about the edges of where this could go, which is super cool. And then it's reminding me of an article I read yesterday which is the simple, the simplest version of this and how it could be immensely useful right now, which is treating this article. And I've been thinking a lot about phantom work we were talking about this last week. Right, Michael. Can't remember. Ok. So I read a really good article about, written by it was in the atlantic. I can post it if you guys want to um I want to read it from a woman who writes often about the social, um, the government's projects and um, and solutions for supporting the social structure of society. Right? So it could be like helping somebody with homelessness or helping somebody get Money from the government who they were promised because of COVID-19 issues or whatever. Right? Any, any of those kind of programs. And she's saying she got to a point where she, you know, obviously there's always red tape, obviously there's always too many forms to fill out all the rest. But she's got to a point where she started noticing after reporting on it for years and years. Maybe this is about, I'm guessing now about five years ago or something. She started to recognize that, wow, this has gotten to a whole new level of complicated. And does it really need to be this complicated? There's such uh, so much friction for people who are need help to get the help that they need, whether it's in health care and making a million phone calls to your insurance company when you're ill or it's, you know, not, you know, homelessness and making having to fill out forms with random questions to make absolutely no sense to anybody under any circumstances on order to just have a meeting with somebody. And she pointed out some very clear examples of how this works. And so I just think it's interesting, I think that, you know, just having a knowledge repository, we're not even talking about personal now when I'm talking about the gray area and we're not even talking about the future of what's possible. We're talking about that public knowledge store. That could be that with the time and attention of people who have the time and attention to give could be immensely useful to the people who don't have the time and attention to give, who either are ill or don't have the money, the resources, the time, the energy or whatever. And she talked about how those things used to be done by a government agency. There's really no quality control it anymore. So now teachers are doing that work and social workers are doing that work and other, you know, non profit agencies are doing the work of trying to help individuals get to what they need and get through the system to what they need. So it's just interesting to me um as a as a thought exercise and maybe also as a good test case to in terms of trying to get information to the right people at the right time in the right place when they need it. Um It's low hanging fruit in terms of solutions, solution finding, you know, here's the solution here is how to get through it. Here's an organization. They'll help you navigate through it. You know, at least you have the information at the at the baseline. Um Just as a thought Thanks Peter That's the one was it you that posted it to matter most. Did someone post to matter most. Is that how I ended up with it? Because I can't remember.

[1:53:27] spk_1: I didn't start with it. I grabbed the link. I found the link after somebody had mentioned it. I think maybe it was you and, and Michael knows it too obvious. So we're coming up on two hours. This has been an awesome conversation. Maybe it's a good time to route. Um, I'll post

[1:53:51] spk_5: reported this one

[1:53:53] spk_3: too. Yeah. Look forward

[1:53:54] spk_5: to think

[1:53:55] spk_1: that. Um, I'll plus the zoom chat, uh, in the channel. Yeah. And I'll put the link to the recording there and then I'll get it on Youtube publicly.

[1:54:08] spk_2: So nice to meet you, Zeke. I'm so glad you're here today.

[1:54:11] spk_0: Nice to meet you. I really appreciate this conversation. So it's amazing. Thank you all for doing what you're doing and being you.

[1:54:19] spk_2: Yeah. You too. I think we'd all agree. And I think I probably speak for everyone and that if you're interested in working with us on, I'm trying to figure this out. We are very much welcoming of your time and talents.

[1:54:35] spk_0: Thank

[1:54:35] spk_3: you. Love to know what you're doing and how we can support you.

[1:54:41] spk_0: Well, thank you. Yeah, very excited to um, get connected. So just let me know.

[1:54:48] spk_1: Cool. I think you know about mannerist and yeah, you do.

[1:54:52] spk_0: Yeah, I'm not, I haven't been using it, but I'm familiar. I can hop on there.

[1:54:56] spk_1: I'm the

[1:54:57] spk_0: one that all the hop on anything, whatever app people are using, I'll jump in here just uh I don't have experience with any of these things, I haven't used social media in like a decade literally, so um there's a lot of things, I'm just not going to know about like current events and stuff to keep that in mind, also, like, I just may struggle to, like figure out how to use some of these things, but I'm very curious to hear people's opinions on what they like and don't like about certain software and applications, because didn't realize I'd end up being in this where I am now designing it, but I am, so I need to kind of know now like what's what's

[1:55:32] spk_1: out there, so is a so the Mandamus is um where this community kind of hangs out when we're not on calls um in the flotilla channel, um there's another channel you might be interested in which is a synergetic social media, um which is kind of somebody who's working on a uh less on virtuous uh social media um but it's, it's also kind of a general, you might have some good conversations there about what's good and bad about different, different social media platforms.

[1:56:13] spk_0: Yeah, yeah, that'd be great. Just um yeah, so do you have me the info

[1:56:18] spk_4: and I'll hop in there

[1:56:19] spk_2: and feel free again, Michael was saying the post whatever questions you have to, I found, I'm pretty new to to this experience as well with everyone else in collaboration. So I found I can just speak to my own experience as saying, I found that if you post a question, there's plenty of people who will be like to chime in in a very supportive way to um either, you know, bring your attention to resources, you don't know, or, you know, answer the question directly or whatever, so however we can support you, that's what I'm getting at.

[1:56:49] spk_0: Yeah, thank you so much. This is uh this is bigger than us, you know? It's really cool. It's great. It's really great to meet people like yourselves,

[1:57:02] spk_2: you're too, my husband came down, I had you guys on, on you and I'm making my lunch, and he's he just leans in, he goes, I can't even, like, you didn't say that, but I just know not everyone likes to have these conversations and I would try to have them with him, and he'd be like, please, I have a headache. Like I just he runs he runs software in his day job to seize the VP of Penzler, which is a language learning, you know, he's developed their app. And so he's like, I can't, I can't, I can't, you know, and I'm like, please, I really wanted this stuff

[1:57:33] spk_1: is great.

[1:57:34] spk_2: It's just nice to have a, have a forum, talk about it with other people who are interested and we all see the potential because it's heavy topics they start talking about, we get into and you know, I know at times it can really weigh me down and give me compassion fatigue. So, um, it's nice to have being an environment with people who feel like there is a path through. So thank you. Thank you for always holding the space and it's been great.

[1:58:04] spk_1: Thanks. I'll have a great weekend. Have

[1:58:06] spk_0: a great day. Great weekend. See you. Bye.

